(1A)
If the union of A and B is contained within B, then all of A is within B. A is a subset of B.

(1B)
If the only the elements of B comprise the entire intersection of A and B, then B is a subset of A. All of set B is contained within set A.

(2) probability of male or republican and not independent is 0.51

The conditional probability of female given not democrat is 0.26

Assuming that political party is independent of gender, 
each male cell should have 10.67 people and each female cell should have 12.67 people.

(3) Identify the level of measurement for each of following

Ranking of eight choices reaction time: 
Reaction time itself, given time has an absolute zero value, would be a ratio measurement. However, ranking reaction times would remove information about the distances between times and would therefore be an ordinal measurement.

Memory ability as measured by number of words recalled from a studied list
I think this is not quite an interval, and therefore ordinal measurement. If someone remembered 4 words instead of 2, I don't think one could say that they remembered "twice as much", especially given that the words differ in length. There may be a way to convert each word into a number of bits and measure each word that way, which would be closer to a ratio measure, since it would directly reflect that magnitude of the information sent through a channel (the brain), and 0 bits is an absolute zero-point. But given people have different relationships to each word already, it would be hard to say how many bits of information corresponding to those words were already known.

5 – point rating scale
Likert scales are ordinal scales. It is not clear that the difference between 1 and 2 is the same as the difference between 3 and 
4. Therefore it would be inappropriate to do arithmetic on a 5-point rating scale.

EEG reading
EEG readings are measured on an interval scale. There is no absolute zero point and actually different subjects will have different baseline levels of activation, as will different EEG machines. Therefore they cannot be ratio. However, the measurement is likely some linear funtion of the true activation, so arithmetic can be performed on it.

(4) p(x) = (2x)/k { for x = 1,2,3,4,5 and 0 otherwise}
what’s k¶
k = 30

what’s the probability that x = 2, 3, or 4
p = 0.6

if I do experiment twice what’s the probability that the choice in Experiment 1 and in Experiment 2 both = 4?
The probability of obtaining 4 twice in a row is 0.267 * 0.267 = 0.071.

(5) I have two decks of cards. I take a card from deck A and put it on top of deck B, face down. I shuffle deck B thoroughly. After shuffling, what is the probability that the top card of deck B is an Ace?

This is equal to the probability of drawing an ace from deck A (4/52) then putting it into deck B and drawing it from deck B (1/53) times the probability of drawing 1 of the 4 aces from deck B (4/53), which equals 0.08, which is also equal to the probability of drawing an ace from deck A.

(6) What is A’ and what is determinant of A?
A transpose is [9 2; 3 4;] (swap rows and columns). 
det(A) = 30.

(7) Next week I may assign this and ask you to solve this analytically. This week, I would like you to solve it via a simulation. Suppose 5% of the population is infected with a virus. We have 100 hospitals that each test 25 people, 100 hospitals that test 50 people and 100 that test 100 people. What percentage of hospitals will find no cases, and wrongly conclude the virus has disappeared?

I'm not confident in my answer to this one. What I attempted to do was sample from the binomial distribution using the base rate of the virus infection in the population for each combination of 100 hospitals testing 25, 50, and 100 patients. I then simulated this 100,000 times and came up with 21 hospitals that would wrongly conclude the virus has disappeared. 